so Mary the argument you've made um I'm
going
to summarize it and tell me if I've got
it right so you went back far enough in
time to assess the role that men and
women played in home centered agrarian
societies and you made a case that that
was a stable solution of
relative economic equality let's say and
then the Industrial Revolution kicked in
and it pulled men away from the home
first but then it it um replaced women's
work and that meant that women were up
in the air about what their role was but
it also turned them into something
approximating comparatively wealthy
individualist
consumers then you said there were two
responses to that one was the emergence
of a feminism of care that detailed out
the realm of women's responsibilities
and opportunities in the really in the
domes sphere with regard to say
relationships with their husbands their
immediate family and more importantly
their children and then you detailed out
another stream of feminism which was the
feminism of Freedom you Associated that
to some degree with women's concern
about being tangled up with men who
weren't really good for anything and so
that's an interesting little twist on
that but your fundamental point was that
once women become became
independent actors in the free market in
the IND industrialized free market there
was every reason to move towards the
transformation of law so that women as
independent economic actors would have
the same economic rights as men but then
but then there's that problem with bad
men lurking in the background there that
contaminates things and then you talked
a little bit about the transhumanist
movement identifying that at least in
part with the rise of the birth control
pill which is a radical Innovation
basically equivalent to genetic a major
genetic mutation a species altering
mutation and then you pointed out that
oddly enough in concert with the rise of
the pill we got the rise of legalized
abortion and its widespread prevalence
okay so that's where I want to drill
into I want to tell you something
biological and I want you to tell me
what you think about it because I think
it's key in some mysterious way to this
entire problem the problem you've laid
out is that women and men for that
matter have been recalibrating their
identity since the dawn of the
Industrial Revolution it made us into
more atomized individuals who were more
consumer oriented let's say and that's a
major social disruption but then on the
pill and the abortion side here's
something that is worth considering I
believe so you know the evolutionary
biologists have identified two
fundamental reproductive strategies so
imagine there's a continua okay okay on
the one end you have they're called R
selected or R strategists and and the r
stands for reproduction essentially
rapid reproduction let's say and so
mosquitoes and puffballs and fish are
our strategists and so the r strategy is
fairly
straightforward many many many potential
Offspring millions or even billions of
them zero post sex
investment so that's the our investment
strategy okay and so most of your
fertilized offspring gedes are going to
perish enough will last for them to
replace you or maybe even for the
population to thrive but it has nothing
to do with you after the sexual act okay
on the other side are so-called K
investment K strategists and those are
creatures mammals would be a reasonable
example that have very few Offspring but
pour a lot of resources into them and
the ultimate K strategists are human
beings so our investment strategy is
long-term high cost investment even
spanning multiple
Generations okay so there's a real
distribution and humans are on the
extreme end of one of
those uh directions let's say one of
those poles of the distribution okay now
there's a subsidiary observ ation that
goes along with that and this is where
the point is really
gerain so now imagine that among human
beings there are R strategists and K
strategists okay so the r strategists
are ones who have many sexual
partners and low investment now that's a
lot easier for men than it is for women
because of course if women get pregnant
their High investment strategy s
immediately unless they circumvent that
but the men can get away with it let's
say being our strategists now a further
question is just who the hell are these
R strategist males so these would be the
men who are interested in multiple
sexual
partners um low emotional investment and
low post sexual investment Say in any
result in children and we know the
answer to that
our strategist males
are narcissistic
mellian Psychopathic and
sadistic and so what that means I think
as far as I can tell is that when you
free up women to be sexually available
with the technological
transformation you both deliver them
into the hands of our strategist males
who have all the lovely person
personality features that I just
described or you or maybe something even
worse is that you train men who might
otherwise be high investment maters to
adopt a r strategy with all of the
psychopathy and melanism
and narcissism and sadism that goes
along with that and
so this is a very perverse outcome
because and I guess I don't really know
what people expected to begin with
you said that for example you implied
that you know women are pursuing their
freedom let's say with regards to
untrammeled sexual access on the
reproductive front but that's not
exactly a freedom it's more like a
subjugation to sexuality as the prime
motivator in life right I mean you could
identify yourself with your sexuality
which is of course what people are doing
in Spades now but the idea that the
opportunity the ability to pursue
untrammeled sexual expression is
actually a manifestation of freedom is
an error if you believe that subjugation
to biological untrammeled subjugation to
biological whim doesn't constitute
Freedom this is especially true if it
turns out that it's delivering women
into the hands of Psychopathic men which
seems to be the case there's a great
deal of Truth in that and really that
speaks to the one of the it it speaks to
the epigraph actually which I gave the
second half of the second part of the
book which comes from Horus I'm not
going to try and quote the Latin at you
but the translation is you can drive
nature out with a pitchfork but still
she comes back um it's a very famous
quote um I think I've I've taken it
taken it slightly mischievously out of
context but it's a very important piece
because the governing theme of the
transhumanist era is using technology to
try and abolish our nature and really
that's that's the that that's the that's
the governing um theme the the the
governing project of the of the
transhumanist era which is the point
where we embrace the or as we hope the
the power of Technologies to transform
ourselves so we're no longer
industrializing the world we're no
longer using machines to say make
weaving easier instead we're using
Technologies to to remodel ourselves um
to make us more like we think we ought
to be at least also or that's the idea
and that really begins with the
contraceptive pill which which is a a
medical technology which we which the
and the original utopians the first wave
of feminist responses to the pill were
huge ly optimistic about what it would
do I mean we're some we're some decades
further down that track now and we can
see that it hasn't really worked out
like that and our mutual friend Lise
Perry wrot recently wrote a very
persuasive book detailing all of the
ways it hasn't really worked out like
that and all of the ways which as you've
just outlined the sexual Revolution was
considerably more to the benefit of um
was it our our selected um all the these
narcissistic Psychopathic um highly
sexed and not particularly fatherly men
seem to have been the net beneficiaries
of this technological transformation
Contra the Contra The utopians Who
imagined that we might that it would
open out a kind of sexual Utopia in
which everybody could be free to be
themselves women could finally Express
themselves free from the the the
gossiping the gossiping old ladies in
the street and free from the risk of
pregnancy and and it would make
everything sort of sunshine and rainbows
and kittens and it would all be lovely
now now we know we know at this point
that that's not exactly what happened
but but really this just go this this
serves to illustrate the utopian
spirit that people have brought to the
project of Technology technologizing
ourselves using using essentially
biotech beginning with the the chemical
intervention of the contraceptive pill
um but we're considerably further down
that path now and at at every stage
we've set about embracing new new
Innovations in biotech in the Hope
really of remedying perceived flaws in
our nature you know whether that's
whether that's a pill to stop us being
sad or whether it's a whether it's a
technology which will which will which
will mean women's fertility no longer
has to fall off a cliff at the age of 40
because now there are now there are
Technologies which will enable her to go
on having kids into her 50s or her 60s
or or whatever I mean the you we could
we could be here all evening um
enumerating the V the the Technologies
uh the the opportunities and the
biomedical advances and at every stage
what happens is there's a utopian
promise of being able to escape a
previous embodied limit um there is a
a a new set of a new set of constraints
on us if you like aspects of our nature
which were previously managed by social
means in the way that the the difference
between women's and men's reproductive
role was previously managed by what what
what now gets dismissively referred to
as the sexual double standard which was
in the area prior to Reliable
contraception an extremely pragmatic
measure um oriented avoiding avoiding a
proliferation of unwanted children
within a community um and so so so so
that's one example of of a way you know
an asymmetry or some some awkward aspect
of our nature was was managed socially
in a way which just went away more or
less overnight the moment of Technology
came along that seemed as though it
would fix the problem for us and there
have been countless other examples since
then and what invariably happens is you
get a dividend of freedom and then
whatever it is that's been technologized
in that way is then reordered to the
market and you and you see this very
clearly with the sexual Revolution which
which promised a great utopian dividend
of of self-expression and free love and
you know everybody having aies and it'll
be fine um and actually what it gave
birth to was the porn industry and it
gave birth to a ballooning sex industry
and now you know 50 years on from that
we have PornHub which is one of the
biggest website one of the most one one
of the most high high grossing websites
in the world and which is already
notorious for sex trafficking for abuse
um for for countless other atrocities
and for cooning the appetites of
children frankly who are who are the
majority of its consumers and and and
much else besides so so so what but but
really what I want to emphasize there is
the dynamic at work we think we think
technologizing ourselves will liberate
us from some aspect of our nature what
in fact happens is that that that aspect
of our nature becomes opened up to
Commerce and in the meantime our nature
is unchanged
[Music]